.TH SIMPLE_SHELL "1" "November 28, 2019" "Simple Shell Manual Page"

.SH NAME
.B lsh 
-Simple shell implementation of command line - Holberton Project
.PP

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./lsh
.PP

.SH Description
this is a simpel command line interpreter which is interactive with respect to user input.
It also has the ability to execute commands piped from the background.

.SH Overview
The shell is a program that reads user input, being it a file, or text on consol, interprets them, and  executes them.

.SH Invocation
Shell could be run in interactive mode where input is accepted from the keyboard. It also works in a non-interactive mode, the shell is run from a script or
standard input from a echo standard output.

To run the shell you should compile all the .c files in the repo with GNU Comiler Collectio and execute the output file, as follow:
.P
.RS
.B $ gcc -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic *.c -o hsh
.P
.RE
Where hsh would be the file to execute:
.RS
.B $ ./hsh
.P
.RE
Simple Shell would be run in interactive mode by executing the hsh. Once you execute it, a prompt ($ ) will appear waiting for you to type a command followed by an enter. Once you press enter the shell will execute the command and a new prompt ('$') will appear again expecting a new command. Until you type exit or ctrl D.  

The non-interactive mode uses shell scripts. This includes the use of piping ('|'). Example:
.P
.RS
.B echo 'ls -la' | ./hsh

.SH BUILT-IN COMMANDS
.RS information on built-in commands
.B  exit
- Shell process is terminated, and exit from it with zero for success, any other value indicating a failure on the last executed process.
.PP
.B  env
- Prints all the environmental variables of Simple shell.
.P
.B #
- Ignores or takes as comments all the commands or things typed after the '#' character. 
.SH Pipelines
This shell does not handle with pipelines |.

.SH Special Parameters
.IP None
Note that this does not handle special characters

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP HOME
Automatically set from the user's login directory. Default argument for the
cd builtin.
.IP PATH
Default search for executables.


.SH SEE ALSO
sh(1)

.SH BUGS
No known bugs. Please contact any of the authors if a bug appears.

.SH AUTHORS
Nfon Andrew Tatah <nfonandrew73@gmail.com>
